INGREDIENTS NEEDED
You will need the following to make this yummy street food at home;



Puri or poori
Filling or stuffing (ragda/aloo masala/moong sprouts), totally your choice
Meetha pani aka sweet chutney
Teekha pani aka the spicy water 
Let’s talk about all these elements in detail!

PURIS
I’ve already done a very detailed recipe in my earlier post on this topic. You can read all about that here – golgappa puri recipe 

FILLING/STUFFING
You have quite a lot of options when it comes to the stuffing. I personally, love using ragda for the filling, as that is what I’ve been eating all my life. It’s the stuffing of choice in Mumbai.

For the ragda recipe: You will need to soak the dried peas overnight or at least 8 hours. The next day, pressure cook it with salt, red chilli powder, and turmeric. That’s about it. This is the pretty basic recipe, you don’t really need to add too many flavors to the ragda, coz the pani’s are super flavorful. However, if you do wish to make the ragda with onion, tomatoes, and more spices, you can refer the recipe for that here, which I’ve shared in my ragda patties post.
Moong sprouts: You will need steamed moong sprouts if you like this as the filling. You can read my moong sprouts pulao post to learn how to sprout moong beans.
Aloo masala stuffing: Take about 2-3 medium boiled and mashed potatoes, and add finely chopped onion, cilantro/coriander leaves, green chillies, about 1/4 cup of ragda or boiled black chickpeas, roasted cumin powder, black salt, red chili powder, about a teaspoon of lemon juice and salt, to taste. Mix everything well, and your aloo masala stuffing is ready. Add all the ingredients as per your taste, there is really no fixed recipe for this stuffing.
Plain boondi


GOLGAPPA PANI
So there are two kinds of water as mentioned above,

TEEKHA PANI (SPICY WATER)
You can make the spicy pani aka green pani at home with fresh ingredients, you don’t really need any pani puri masala to make this water. In a pinch, you can use the popular Everest pani puri masala instead of the individual spices mentioned in the recipe.



To make the spicy water, first, you will need to prepare the pani puri paste. That consists of mint leaves, cilantro/coriander leaves, lots of green chillies (of course you can adjust to your heat tolerance), ginger, and few ‘chatpata‘ spices. If you can get hold of some raw mangoes, please use them, it adds an amazing flavor to the spicy water. 

The recipe of the teekha pani was shared by one of the members, Mrs. Indira Sharma, of our FB foodie group. She’s been making it for years now. I’ve simply adapted her recipe and let me tell you it’s the best and only recipe you will ever need for making the ‘spicy pani’ which is a bomb of flavors!

Ditch the ready-made store-bought stuff, and make it at home instead. You won’t regret you did!

MEETHA PANI (SWEET CHUTNEY)
This is nothing but the sweet chutney aka date-tamarind chutney. Add some water to dilute it to a slightly runny consistency. That’s about it.



Some people add the meetha chutney into the spicy water, but I like to serve it separately, as some people like it mild, some like it spicy, and some like it with just the sweet chutney, especially kids. So you can absolutely customize that to suit everyone’s needs!

SERVING THIS ‘CHAAT’
Lay out the puris, sweet chutney, spicy pani, stuffing of choice (here it is ragda) in separate containers.

Take a puri, crack it gently with your thumb, spoon in some warm ragda, followed by sweet pani, then dunk the puri in spicy pani, and slurp away!!

I’m sure even 6 of this delicious homemade pani puris won’t suffice. You can easily lose track of how many you indulge in!

Three filled pani puris in a bowl



A FEW TIPS…
I’ve shared a lot of tips to make the perfect puri for this recipe, so do check those out, find the link below in the steps. A perfect, crispy, puffed puri is the heart and soul of this recipe, as it is the vessel that carries all that yumminess! In a pinch, you could choose to buy the read-made ones as well. 
Adjust the seasoning of the pani as per your preference. I really love using more mint as compared to coriander leaves for the spicy pani. You can add an equal amount of coriander and mint leaves if you like. 
Do not skip the raw mango for the spicy pani, it really adds a little extra to the flavor.
Chill the spicy water for a few hours, it really helps the flavors to mingle and develop more as it sits.
If you like soft boondi, you may add it to the spicy water before refrigerating. If you like it crispy, add it to the water just before serving.
Remember to have everything ready before you serve. Then simply assemble and enjoy as many as you like to your heart’s content 


